RHIDP-6507 - modularize _Monitoring and logging with AWS (#1089)
redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh: assemblies/assembly-monitoring-with-amazon-prometheus.adoc

= Monitoring with Amazon Prometheus

> {product} provides Prometheus metrics related to the running application. For more information about enabling or deploying Prometheus for EKS clusters, see https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/prometheus.html[Prometheus metrics] in the Amazon documentation.

Reviewer: Should there be a "link:" after see and before the link??

Author: ```suggestion
{product} provides Prometheus metrics related to the running application. For more information about enabling or deploying Prometheus for EKS clusters, see link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/prometheus.html[Prometheus metrics] in the Amazon documentation.
```

> {product} provides Prometheus metrics related to the running application. For more information about enabling or deploying Prometheus for EKS clusters, see link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/prometheus.html[Prometheus metrics] in the Amazon documentation.

Author: ```suggestion
{product} provides Prometheus metrics related to the running application. For more information about enabling or deploying Prometheus for {eks-name} ({eks-short}) clusters, see link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/prometheus.html[Prometheus metrics] in the Amazon documentation.
```

> To monitor {product-short} using https://aws.amazon.com/prometheus/[Amazon Prometheus], you need to create an Amazon managed service for the Prometheus workspace and configure the ingestion of the Developer Hub Prometheus metrics. For more information, see https://docs.aws.amazon.com/prometheus/latest/userguide/AMP-onboard-create-workspace.html[Create a workspace] and https://docs.aws.amazon.com/prometheus/latest/userguide/AMP-onboard-ingest-metrics.html[Ingest Prometheus metrics to the workspace] sections in the Amazon documentation.

Reviewer: Should there be a "link:" after see and before the link??
And should it be "Amazon-managed"?

Author: ```suggestion
To monitor {product-short} using https://aws.amazon.com/prometheus/[Amazon-managed Prometheus], you need to create an Amazon managed service for the Prometheus workspace and configure the ingestion of the Developer Hub Prometheus metrics. For more information, see link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/prometheus/latest/userguide/AMP-onboard-create-workspace.html[Create a workspace] and link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/prometheus/latest/userguide/AMP-onboard-ingest-metrics.html[Ingest Prometheus metrics to the workspace] sections in the Amazon documentation.
```

> To monitor {product-short} using https://aws.amazon.com/prometheus/[Amazon-managed Prometheus], you need to create an Amazon managed service for the Prometheus workspace and configure the ingestion of the Developer Hub Prometheus metrics. For more information, see link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/prometheus/latest/userguide/AMP-onboard-create-workspace.html[Create a workspace] and link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/prometheus/latest/userguide/AMP-onboard-ingest-metrics.html[Ingest Prometheus metrics to the workspace] sections in the Amazon documentation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To monitor {product-short} using link:https://aws.amazon.com/prometheus/[Amazon-managed Prometheus], you need to create an Amazon managed service for the Prometheus workspace and configure the ingestion of the Developer Hub Prometheus metrics. For more information, see link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/prometheus/latest/userguide/AMP-onboard-create-workspace.html[Create a workspace] and link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/prometheus/latest/userguide/AMP-onboard-ingest-metrics.html[Ingest Prometheus metrics to the workspace] sections in the Amazon documentation.
```

We need `link:` before all links, right? I see that you added it in a few other places.

> {product} provides Prometheus metrics related to the running application. For more information about enabling or deploying Prometheus for {eks-name} ({eks-short}) clusters, see link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/prometheus.html[Prometheus metrics] in the Amazon documentation.
> 
> To monitor {product-short} using link:https://aws.amazon.com/prometheus/[Amazon-managed Prometheus], you need to create an Amazon managed service for the Prometheus workspace and configure the ingestion of the Developer Hub Prometheus metrics. For more information, see link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/prometheus/latest/userguide/AMP-onboard-create-workspace.html[Create a workspace] and link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/prometheus/latest/userguide/AMP-onboard-ingest-metrics.html[Ingest Prometheus metrics to the workspace] sections in the Amazon documentation.
> 
> After ingesting Prometheus metrics into the created workspace, you can configure the metrics scraping to extract data from pods based on specific pod annotations.

Author: ```suggestion
{product} provides Prometheus metrics related to the running application. 

.Prerequisites
* You configured Prometheus for {eks-name} ({eks-short}) clusters, see link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/prometheus.html[Prometheus metrics] in the Amazon documentation.
* You link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/prometheus/latest/userguide/AMP-onboard-create-workspace.html[created an Amazon managed service for the Prometheus workspace].
* You link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/prometheus/latest/userguide/AMP-onboard-ingest-metrics.html[configured Prometheus to ingest of the Developer Hub Prometheus metrics].
* After ingesting Prometheus metrics into the created workspace, you can configure the metrics scraping to extract data from pods based on specific pod annotations.
```

= Monitoring with Amazon Prometheus

{product} provides Prometheus metrics related to the running application. 

.Prerequisites
* You configured Prometheus for {eks-name} ({eks-short}) clusters, see link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/prometheus.html[Prometheus metrics] in the Amazon documentation.
* You link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/prometheus/latest/userguide/AMP-onboard-create-workspace.html[created an Amazon managed service for the Prometheus workspace].
* You link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/prometheus/latest/userguide/AMP-onboard-ingest-metrics.html[configured Prometheus to ingest of the Developer Hub Prometheus metrics].

> * After ingesting Prometheus metrics into the created workspace, you can configure the metrics scraping to extract data from pods based on specific pod annotations.

Author: ```suggestion
* You ingested Prometheus metrics into the created workspace.

.Next steps

* You can configure the metrics scraping to extract data from pods based on specific pod annotations.
```

= Monitoring with Amazon Prometheus

You can configure {product} to use Amazon Prometheus for comprehensive logging.

> .Prerequisites

Author: https://redhat-documentation.github.io/modular-docs/#assembly-guidelines

Assembly prerequisites

Prerequisites are conditions that must be satisfied before the user can start following the assembly and are applicable to all the modules in the assembly.

Use the second level heading syntax for the Prerequisites section in the assembly so that it is displayed in the table of contents and is consistent with the Additional resources or Next steps sections in the assembly.

```suggestion
== Prerequisites

```

= Monitoring with Amazon Prometheus

{product} provides Prometheus metrics related to the running application. 

.Prerequisites

> * You configured Prometheus for {eks-name} ({eks-short}) clusters, see link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/prometheus.html[Prometheus metrics] in the Amazon documentation.

Author: ```suggestion
* You link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/prometheus.htm[configured Prometheus for your {eks-name} ({eks-short}) clusters].
```

* You link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/prometheus/latest/userguide/AMP-onboard-create-workspace.html[created an Amazon managed service for the Prometheus workspace].
* You link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/prometheus/latest/userguide/AMP-onboard-ingest-metrics.html[configured Prometheus to ingest of the Developer Hub Prometheus metrics].
* You ingested Prometheus metrics into the created workspace.

> .Next steps
> 
> * You can configure the metrics scraping to extract data from pods based on specific pod annotations.
> 
> include::modules/observe/proc-configuring-annotations-for-monitoring-with-amazon-prometheus-by-using-the-operator.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
> 
> 
> include::modules/observe/proc-configuring-annotations-for-monitoring-with-amazon-prometheus-by-using-the-helm-chart.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

Author: ```suggestion

include::modules/observe/proc-configuring-annotations-for-monitoring-with-amazon-prometheus-by-using-the-operator.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/observe/proc-configuring-annotations-for-monitoring-with-amazon-prometheus-by-using-the-helm-chart.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

== Next steps

* You can configure the metrics scraping to extract data from pods based on specific pod annotations.

```

> = Monitoring with Amazon Prometheus

Author: ```suggestion
[id="assembly-monitoring-with-amazon-prometheus_{context}"]
= Monitoring with Amazon Prometheus
```

You can configure {product} to use Amazon Prometheus for comprehensive logging.
Amazon Prometheus extracts data from pods that have specific pod annotations.

== Prerequisites

* You link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/prometheus.htm[configured Prometheus for your {eks-name} ({eks-short}) clusters].
* You link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/prometheus/latest/userguide/AMP-onboard-create-workspace.html[created an Amazon managed service for the Prometheus workspace].

> * You link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/prometheus/latest/userguide/AMP-onboard-ingest-metrics.html[configured Prometheus to ingest of the Developer Hub Prometheus metrics].

Author: ```suggestion
* You link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/prometheus/latest/userguide/AMP-onboard-ingest-metrics.html[configured Prometheus to import the {product-short} metrics].
```

[id="assembly-monitoring-with-amazon-prometheus_{context}"]
= Monitoring with Amazon Prometheus

You can configure {product} to use Amazon Prometheus for comprehensive logging.
Amazon Prometheus extracts data from pods that have specific pod annotations.

> == Prerequisites

Reviewer 2: We typically use the other heading type for Prerequisites. Is there a specific reason why you are using this type of heading here?

Doing it this way makes the Prerequisites section its own chapter. IMO, this section should be part of 2.1.

Author: Yes see https://redhat-documentation.github.io/modular-docs/#assembly-guidelines

> Assembly prerequisites
>
> Prerequisites are conditions that must be satisfied before the user can start following the assembly and are applicable to all the modules in the assembly.
>
> Use the second level heading syntax for the Prerequisites section in the assembly so that it is displayed in the table of contents and is consistent with the Additional resources or Next steps sections in the assembly.

= Monitoring with Amazon Prometheus

> You can configure {product} to use Amazon Prometheus for comprehensive logging.
> 
> == Prerequisites
> 
> * You link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/prometheus.htm[configured Prometheus for your {eks-name} ({eks-short}) clusters].
> * You link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/prometheus/latest/userguide/AMP-onboard-create-workspace.html[created an Amazon managed service for the Prometheus workspace].
> * You link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/prometheus/latest/userguide/AMP-onboard-ingest-metrics.html[configured Prometheus to ingest of the Developer Hub Prometheus metrics].
> * You ingested Prometheus metrics into the created workspace.
> 
> 
> include::modules/observe/proc-configuring-annotations-for-monitoring-with-amazon-prometheus-by-using-the-operator.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
> 
> 
> include::modules/observe/proc-configuring-annotations-for-monitoring-with-amazon-prometheus-by-using-the-helm-chart.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
> 
> 
> == Next steps
> 
> * You can configure the metrics scraping to extract data from pods based on specific pod annotations.

Author: ```suggestion
You can configure {product} to use Amazon Prometheus for comprehensive logging.
Amazon Prometheus extracts data from pods that have specific pod annotations.

== Prerequisites

* You link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/prometheus.htm[configured Prometheus for your {eks-name} ({eks-short}) clusters].
* You link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/prometheus/latest/userguide/AMP-onboard-create-workspace.html[created an Amazon managed service for the Prometheus workspace].
* You link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/prometheus/latest/userguide/AMP-onboard-ingest-metrics.html[configured Prometheus to ingest of the Developer Hub Prometheus metrics].
* You ingested Prometheus metrics into the created workspace.

include::modules/observe/proc-configuring-annotations-for-monitoring-with-amazon-prometheus-by-using-the-operator.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

include::modules/observe/proc-configuring-annotations-for-monitoring-with-amazon-prometheus-by-using-the-helm-chart.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

```
